Studio 11 write up

Your TA's name:



Students in your studio group:

    Name        Student ID (begins with a 4)
	
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.


Part 1. Introduction


1. Give your own definition for what a crypographic key is 
Ans: A cryptographic key is a piece of information that determines functional output of a cryptographic algorithm. For encryption algorithms, 
a key specifies the transformation of plaintext into ciphertext, and vice versa for decryption algorithms. Encryption and decryption parameter
2. Explain the differences between public, private, and shared keys 
Ans: available to everyone, end user, a private key multiple users use.
3. Is Diffie-Hellmann an encryption algorithm? **
Ans: No! It is a key exchange algorithm for exchanging symmetric keys.
4. Encryption is often confused with hashing, can you think of a reason why? what is the main difference? 
Ans:  They both take in a string and return some jumbled transformation of the message. The main difference is encryption can be reversed but hashing cannot be reversed.
5. bonus: should passwords be hashed or encrypted before they are stored in a database? why? 
Ans:Passwords should be hashed because we don't want to reverse it

Part 2. Caesar Ciphers


For the following messages and keys, give the output of the caesar encryption:

1.Ans: hfy

2.Ans: cheud

3.Ans: pas

for the following message/encrypted message pairs, give the key

1. Ans:7

2. Ans:5

3. Ans:15


Part 3. Diffie-Hellmann Key Exchanges


before starting make sure you are able to answer the following questions:

1. what values must be agreed upon by both parties beforehand? 
Ans: base,g ; modulus,p
2. how many private keys are used? 
Ans: each side create one secret number
3. what is the equation to calculate the public keys?
Ans: g^secret (mod p)
4. what the equation to produce the final shared keys? 
Ans:other public key^(my own private key) (mod p)
5. how many of the secret numbers need to be known in order to crack the algorithm? 
Ans: Just one, either one can be used to find the shared key
